There are three sources of "error" leading to the displays taking
unexpected values during the seasons of the year in eras far from the
present:

1.  In ancient times, we use the proleptic Julian calendar.  This is
not so much an error as a change in convention: It is no longer
necessarily the case that March 21 (for example) is near the vernal
equinox.  In particular, since the Julian calendar has approximately
an error of one day per century, and since it was approximately
correct at 1 CE, it will be further and further off as you get further
and further back in time from 1 BCE.  Just as the "seasonal date" had
advanced by 10 days ahead of the Julian calendar by the time the
Gregorian took effect in 1582, the "seasonal date" will be *behind*
the Julian calendar for times before 100 BCE.  For example, in 2000
BCE, the vernal equinox is on April 7 (the "seasonal date" is back on
March 21st, so is about 18 days behind).  This has nothing to do with
precession; precession says what stars are behind the equinox where it
occurs; this says what day the equinox happens on, and is only a
reflection of the fact that the Julian calendar assumes a year is
365.25 days instead of the more accurate 365.2425 days.

2.  The precession of the equinoxes means that the constellations are
in different places on the same "seasonal date".  That is, at the
equinox (March 1st in our example), the constellations will appear
differently than they do at the equinox (or on March 1st) today.  Put
another way, if the Sun and Moon and Lunar nodes are displayed with
of-date coordinates against the J2000 constellation positions, they
will be in different places than they are today at the equinox.  Since
2000 BCE is about 4000 years ago, the precession from today will be
about 4/26 or about 2 months.  The effect of precession as you move
back in time is to move the apparent positions of the constellations
backward at the same seasonal date (or, alternatively, the
Sun/Moon/nodes forward with respect to the J2000 constellations).  So
the Sun, for example, in 2000 BCE at the equinox (at March 1st in the
proleptic Julian calendar), will be at the same spot in the
constellations as it is on May 16th in 2009 CE.

3.  The variable rate of rotation of the Earth introduces a time
constraint commonly called "Delta T", which is the difference between
Terrestrial Time TT (formerly Terrestrial Dynamic Time TDT or
Ephemeris Time ET) and UT1.  UT1 is the time of day, a purely solar
measurement, and TT is a time base which does not change.

http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/SEhelp/deltaT.html
http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/SEhelp/deltat2004.html

It is impossible to say with any accuracy what DeltaT was prior to the
time when we have observations of astronomical events, becaue the
theoretical models are not precise enough to model it.  Morrison &
Stephenson [Morrison, L. and Stephenson, F. R., "Historical Values of
the Earth's Clock Error Î”T and the Calculation of Eclipses",
J. Hist. Astron., Vol. 35 Part 3, August 2004, No. 120, pp 327-336
(2004)] have such data going back to about 500 BCE, at which time the
Delta T value is estimated to have been 17190 seconds, about 5 hours.
Further extrapolation seems unwise, but as the number is going up
quadratically (because it is the integration of an approximately
linear change in rate), a reasonable SWAG for the value in 2000 BCE
can be derived with the formula given by that paper to be -20 + 32 *
u^2, where u = (year-1820)/100.  So year = -2000 (approx), so u = -38.20,
deltaT = -20 + 32 * (-38.20^2) =~ 46,000 seconds (about 13 hours).

The effect of deltaT is limited to those calculations which need to
take into account the rotation of the Earth, notably rise/set/transit
times, and to the display/reporting of times that all events such as
eclipses happen on.  The computer-generated eclipse pages on the NASA
site http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/SEhistory/SEhistory.html list both
the TDT time (very precise) and the UT time (necessarily imprecise
because of the imprecise nature of delta T).  But it seems reasonable
to presume that even over the range of data that we have going back to
4000 BCE, the value of DeltaT will not exceed a couple of days, and
the error therein is probably less than a day.  This obviously has a
small effect on rise and set times (probably less than our claimed
one-minute accuracy), but a larger effect on the times of eclipses,
which could obviously be a whole day off.

Note that rise/set/transit times are *not* off by deltaT, though they
are off *because of* Delta T.  The time that the sun rises is a UT
time, based on the current position of the Sun seasonally.  Only the
latter value depends on deltaT, and moves much slower than Delta T
itself does.

Overall observations:
====================

The reported sunrise and sunset times for a given day will vary
primarily because of 1) [Julian error] and secondarily because of 3)
[Delta T], and not at all because of 2) [precession].

The position of the Sun in the sky on MK is simply UT so that's by
definition correct.  If we rotate the zodiac dial by the precession,
the zodiac dial will show RA of J2000, and the Sun (and Moon, more or
less) will be correct in J2000 terms.

The RA "of date" positions of the Sun/Moon/nodes/planets given by the
WB books will be off by the error in precession 2) used by their
calculations.

For the RA dial on the back of Geneva, the errors in LST will be due
to the errors in 1) and 3), and again not due to precession.  The
error in reading the Sun/Moon/nodes hands against the RA dial of date
will similarly not be affected directly by precession (although the
quantities involved use precession indirectly).  Reading the positions
of those bodies against the constellation dial will depend on the
accuracy with which we have displayed the precession, but we have
verified that our precession calculation matches that of the WB code
to within a few arcseconds so this is not an issue.

Note again that 1) [Julian error] is not really an error, since the
Julian date does in fact refer to a specific known date.  It is, in
fact, exact in this sense.  2) [precession] will be accounted for to the
best of our ability.  3) [DeltaT] could possibly cause the Julian date
to be off by as much as a day from the reported value.
